and welcome back to fresh episode of the
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet check out my
weekly email where i'm sharing
actionable website and marketing tips
useful podcasts free goodies resources
and much much more each and every monday
so you can kick off your week with a
bang why not give it a try over a
business growth dot emails
so joining me today i've got aaron fours
aaron's
[Music]
aaron welcome to the show sir how's it
going hey damn thanks for having me
no worries dude so today we're going to
be chatting all things on what i think
is a rather controversial topic but i'm
going gonna i'm sure you're gonna sway
myself and our audience otherwise we're
gonna be chatting about why outbound
sales
should be reporting to marketing i know
you've got hands-on experience in this
so excited to to dive in and see the the
thoughts for
and against as we as we battle out but
first and foremost aaron
business development reps sales
development reps i mean traditionally
they were meant to report to their
managers or maybe depart depending on
the size of the org their vp of sales or
the chief revenue officer
isn't that right i thought that was i
thought that was a standard process yeah
it is uh you're not wrong so uh it's the
unpopular thing to do is to put bdrs or
sdrs under the marketing department in
fact i think
as recent as six months ago it was
hubspot who did a study across b2b
companies
uh where did the bdrs or the sdr sit and
it was only about 30 that are actually
under the marketing department so that's
it's growing but it's definitely not
right the majority of that money okay
uh yeah so it depends on the size of the
company it depends on the stage of the
company um
really the the
arguments for why i think it's so
critical
at least for a company like jairo that's
doing enterprise sales
or a b2b company we're focused very much
on account based
uh um you know now all b2b is abm right
but we're very focused on account based
marketing um for us our bdrs are treated
like brand ambassadors the messaging is
critical we're going after very specific
sea levels and vps and it just makes
sense for the bdrs to have that very
very strong connection to the marketing
department and direct access to a lot of
the resources that come with being
within the marketing department
that's one
but ultimately for us it just meant
who's going to put the most resources
and emphasis into training bdrs and
making sure that you know these
representatives are
you know as connected to the messaging
as they can be and then of course
that that's going to reflect in their
overall performance so it was really
going to own the team and and try to
grow the team and
for us it was a decision that has now
paid dividends over the course of the
last year so we've got 12 months of this
under our belt
and bdrs are pretty happy i think to be
under the marketing department um you
know it's only help them to grow and
understand
a little bit of the product offering
better and the messaging that goes with
it
yeah so it's something you've tried and
tested it sounds like for the last year
or so
yeah and i mean in your own experience
was there much of before we dive into
some actionables was there much of i
guess a couple things was it difficult
first and foremost to do the transition
like did your sales team think what the
heck are you talking about when you said
it's going to happen straight off
absolutely um
so for us it was a fundamental change in
the way that our ceo saw marketing so
there's a conversation between our ceo
who leads all of our commercial
uh um activities and then
our ceo and myself about where are we in
terms of our outbound initiatives house
cold bound house cold outbound
performing um you know how much of the
bdr's invested in in hiro as a brand and
around that messaging and you know kind
of understanding the customer personas
my ceo decided the best thing to do and
i agreed with him is to put all of top
of the funnel under the marketing
department and once you do that what
comes with top of the funnel is of
course one-to-one outreach
so a lot of marketing departments are
you know they're still doing one to
one to many or one to few and for us we
wanted to own that one-to-one outreach
as well um
combined with the fact that we were
already you know eighty percent of our
uh our sales qualified opportunities
were already coming from field marketing
so what we wanted to do is combine the
strategy around field marketing and have
bdr's very much connected to the
marketing department that runs those
events um while sourcing those meetings
while sourcing those opportunities
so really the play was okay who's going
to own all top of the funnel and be
accountable to all of top of the funnel
and with it comes the bdr department and
i was more than you know happy to take
that on and and take that challenge and
ultimately we scaled the team so we're a
small company right higher as a series a
conversational ai startup uh we're
relatively small or 58 employees but we
grew from two bdrs now we're actually a
team of six uh with plans to go to eight
by the fall uh so we we show that we're
able to scale show that we're able to
you know uh show growth in that
department and the numbers have never
been higher so for us i think it was it
was a great decision and kudos to my ceo
obviously for realizing that that's
that's the right play for jairo
yeah yeah and in terms of this strategy
do you think that it's only going to be
workable for enterprise b2b businesses
that perhaps are selling higher ticket
longer sales cycle
products or services or do you think it
can work for other orgs too
great question so uh a follow-up to that
question i would ask the company is who
does discovery calls um
so really it doesn't necessarily mean
that you have to be uh selling to
enterprise or your enterprise sas
company or your b2b company even the
idea is who's doing that first touch
point so for us right first discovery
call the the first call you know it
in general is handled by an account
executive if you have aes that are going
to cover the first call so it's it's not
as critical that bdrs are under the
sales department because they're not
taking it past that point of
uh of qualification
so for us it wasn't an issue that top of
the funnel would be handled by all the
marketing and that the bdrs would be
under marketing and they're basically
compensated on how many qualified
meetings are attended and then how many
of those become opportunities so while
they're incentivized by opportunities
it's not their goal to bring them to op
and because of that it made sense that
sales doesn't have to run that that part
of the organization i think when you
don't have um aes doing discovery and
there are a lot of b2b companies that
give uh bdrs or or sdrs right that 15 20
minute discovery call
absolutely running if you're running
that playbook then it might make more
sense actually to keep bdrs and str's
under sales and i think that's the major
uh that's that's a major factor if
you're going to make that decision i
wouldn't think it's as good of an idea
if our bdrs were doing discovery calls i
for uh marketing department to handle
that because then you're you're crossing
hairs with okay what about qualification
you know entering pipeline now you're
into the vp sales territory or you're
into that that sales department's
territory right and and you don't
necessarily want to uh
um you know mix that oil in water so
um
you know the alignment i think uh can be
as good as can be but if discovery is
being done by uh by the uh aes then you
have a chance to put it under marketing
if discovery is done by bdrs sdrs it
makes sense to think to to keep it under
sales
got it yeah i like that explanation so
in this
instance you mentioned quite
personalized one-to-one tailored
outreach
so when i think in my head if i think
sdr if i think outbound sales sales
development reps bdrs i'm thinking cold
calling
50 dials 70 100 a day they've got a
targeted list of accounts they're
hammering those they're aiming to set i
don't know two two meetings three
meetings four meets whatever the
criteria is for their aes their sales
reps then pass on to hit their quota per
day a week per month
is that approach going to work in this
in this instance are we going something
completely different
um so for us
you know we we're a tale of two
verticals right now so hiro is hyper
focused we have agnostic technology but
we're hyper focused on real estate and
we're hyper focused on healthcare and we
split the bdr team to
to reflect that right so we have
verticalized bdrs um for us yeah look
the typical approach of cold outbound
has worked i mean we've combined that
with targeted physical events and we've
also timed it so that we have about one
event per vertical every two months
right so that means at any given point
in healthcare you have one event per two
months during the year and that event is
enough to actually take what would
normal be normal numbers around uh cold
outbound and we're seeing those numbers
boom because of the events you have
pre-event booking meetings you have
during the event we're also starting to
send our bdrs to the events to actually
book meetings on the floor and then you
have post event residual effects of
actually going uh to that event um yep
so we do traditional cold outbound but
what we're also doing is making sure
that we're going to very hyper targeted
conferences that relate to our icps in
these industries and then that's how
we're seeing those numbers really grow
exponentially throughout the year so
that's been our biggest play and it's
worked for hiro and i think if other
companies are verticalized b and b sas
they should definitely look at combining
that approach and there's a couple of
nice tactics i can throw in if you'd
like yeah i'd love to um that's
interesting so you're talking about some
kind of targeted outbound work where
that's cooling and stuff and then super
focused industry events which is
interesting because there's so much
slating and i'm so sure you see it too
aaron where linkedin any b2b platforms
are people saying events are dead focus
on digital selling focus on i don't know
targeted webinars podcasts community
slack groups wherever your customers
hang out but then i suppose
in industries like yours which are
perhaps a little different to your your
target market events might make more
sense or let's dive into that a bit
deeper
absolutely i i
i would never say uh that a you know b2b
sas company shouldn't be doing right now
um you know a video podcast or some kind
of webinar you know series that relates
to their icps i think that that's
definitely a nice supplement it's
something we're working on i'm getting
better at now um
it depends on the stage of growth right
i think i wrote to you sam that i've
been with jairo since it was pre-seed
seed series and now we're raising our
series b um and over time you know i can
tell you that now our our focus has
shifted more towards okay how are we
running demand generation playbooks to
bring in inbound for the bdrs that they
can you know qualify
um intent that's coming in through
inbound
um versus what we've been doing now
which is to to get that short-term
growth so we've been able to you know
overachieve our targets based on this
cold outbound play this field marketing
play and now we know okay we're going to
move into new verticals we're going to
you know add different industries and
different customer personas and what we
did before is not necessarily the best
way to do things but as a small startup
it was the right way to do things in
order to hit those short term goals so
absolutely i think that you know the
right playbooks are or sometimes if you
can do it off the bat building that
inbound engine and just driving through
a lot of you know content creation and
seo articles and webinars and whatever
you can do to drive inbound is fantastic
um
you know owning the top of the funnel
also means hitting those short-term
goals so we can grow as a company and
you know uh continue to raise those uh
those capital rounds and
and and so forth so uh it's it's about a
hybrid and knowing you know which gears
to
to switch on when
yeah that's fair that's that's quite a
real well-rounded approach which
is interesting in terms of
your um your outbound strategy what
would you say is the split like compared
to
your sales reps doing cold outreach
whether that's calling emailing
linkedin personalized
content requests etc opposed to events
is it like a 50 50 split or is it quite
quite different in terms of what's
actually driving the meetings
i can tell you because i just summarized
2022 so 54 of our
uh opportunities right now are coming
from field marketing which might shock
you that is shocking
considering yeah considering you just
said uh how a lot of marketers feel that
physical conferences are dead um yeah
you know to be honest in healthcare
that's still the way that these these uh
sea levels vps are conducting their
business
um and in real estate as well it doesn't
seem to be slowing down in fact the
conferences we went to the last two were
completely sold out uh so you know i i
don't see any signs of this channel
slowing down for us if anything you know
we're still kind of hitting i think that
peak where uh the return of covid has
happened and uh now these conferences
are fuller than ever
um
but uh but yeah for sure it's not going
to be relevant for every single vendor
out here it's not relevant for every
marketer uh these are industries that
are still i don't want to say antiquated
but but they absolutely have some kind
of old-school feel to them and some
physical events are very much alive and
kicking and that's where we've
definitely uh you know we tested a lot
of channels and that's just where we
found uh major success and the cost per
meeting the cost per opportunity from
events even when we get a booth you know
20 by 10 whatever it is still cheaper
than the amount i'm paying for linkedin
to bring in that same meeting or that
same opportunity so um you know for us
for now again to hit those short-term
goals and and get those wins on paper i
mean it's
great to be to have found that one
channel that's really driving success
for us and that's field marketing
combined with cold outcome this is very
interesting so i'm sure a lot of
marketers are listening to this or they
will be and are thinking what the heck
like this is brand new information to
quote phoebe your friends but with that
said
have you got any ideas of perhaps um
marketers or business leaders etc that
are tuning in
that aren't in an industry
that works well in physical events
so
for example yours does but let's say
they're in more of a tech based industry
where perhaps events worked in the past
and now it's digital is the way or
online is the way
or there is other channels to actually
reach your target clients is that just a
case of their sdr's or bdr should just
stick to the traditional phone email
linkedin
maybe direct mail or what your thoughts
there
depends completely depends on on budget
i like the last one you said which was
direct mail
um i think it's it's kind of like uh you
know you had
um
you had uh cds and then all of a sudden
like vinyl came in or sorry you had cds
and mp3s and now you have vinyl making a
huge comeback vinyl overtook digital
music sales like a couple of years back
um it's kind of how direct mail is with
like you had all these interesting
virtual ways of getting to people and
now because everyone's so focused on
jamming up the inbox of a c level or vp
or you know attacking them on linkedin
through uh yeah
it's like
the the actual physical mailbox of a
person is relatively empty so if you're
considering some kind of unique way to
stand out i think direct mail is amazing
you have so many companies now uh three
specific come to mind postal alice and
sendotho that are all like phenomenal
tools i'm not sure about price point and
i'm not sure about budgets of some of
these marketers but phenomenal tools for
getting into the actual direct mailbox
of uh c level or vp that's
that's
to me you know it's something we haven't
done yet we haven't tested this but to
me that's an incredible way you know if
i had that budget back from field
marketing and we weren't going to some
of these events those are some of the
things i try uh for instance i take an
industry report i print it out i'd uh
hand write a letter to a c-level vp and
targeted accounts and i'd send it right
to their you know office or home address
which some of these uh
i don't know if that sounds creepy or
not but some of these
platforms actually have uh you know
these people's addresses they're they're
available and
send them this report with a handwritten
letter and that's immediately you're
standing out that's that's not an email
in an inbox that's it's a lot of effort
you put in that might be rewarded
interesting aaron let me ask you a
direct question you're a vp of marketing
right so a lot of people will be
prospecting you if a sales rep sent you
a super tailored gift
that they'd done some research
and it was interesting would you take
the meeting a thousand percent yeah like
you know what and maybe uh maybe that's
because i'm you know i'm super biased
because i lead a team of bdrs and and
maybe that's you know part of the reason
why i would be so impressed by that and
move to take the meeting obviously if if
the product is completely irrelevant i
take it back you know if they're uh
pitching to me about some kind of like
uh you know cafeteria service for the
company i'll probably shut it down but
uh if it's something related lto
services whatever within the umbrella of
marketing yeah i probably would i think
um
you know even if i didn't because it's
relevant now i'd remember it right
yeah you know it's a boring example to
bring up because everyone knows gong is
kind of like the gold standard now of
b2b marketing but i still remember the
prospecting that gong did because it was
a voice note on linkedin it wasn't even
it wasn't even a good voice note to be
honest but it was a voice known unless
and it stood out it was a different
medium i was receiving something that
really cut through a lot of the noise
um so absolutely i think it's worth a
shot and you'll never know if you don't
test it so
on the flip side yes i completely agree
i mean i i've said this on the show
loads of times but the amount of like i
get prospect on linkedin and cold email
and
first of all i never get cold calls and
secondly i never get voice messages or
video messages that are actually
tailored to me um so just it just shows
you the lack of us two getting those
things is just so few and far apart so
just by doing that you're breaking
through the noise now let me ask you a
slightly tweaked variant of what i just
asked you so rather than a personalized
gift what if a sales rep offers you like
150 voucher or 150
discount card coupon or something like
that something a bit more generic to
take a meeting with you what's your
response then
no um probably
no honestly it's not going to move the
needle it's not that again oh it depends
on the product and if it's actually
relevant maybe
if i was already on the hunt or
evaluating something similar i might be
moved
you know that might move it slightly but
it's not gonna take me from zero to a
hundred uh if it's something that like i
was completely uninterested in
you know that's that's not uh
it's not as interesting and i'm sure you
get right we get those emails all the
time like 20 25 gift card to leave a
review yeah
you know i don't go
you know make money where you can make
money i don't uh you know uh judge
people who are taking those offers for
me it's not something
you know time is the most precious value
we have it's nothing i'm trading for
the gift certificate but if someone
really went to the efforts to try and
get my attention because they think i'm
relevant for their product and they sent
me something that's like
you know shows i don't know some kind of
like deeper connection to me as a person
then that that might do it yeah yeah
yeah i was just throwing that one in the
mix because i saw a while ago on
linkedin some people were testing like
different vouchers and stuff to book a
demo but in my opinion
it just sounds a bit
almost like
you're forcing someone to take a demo
that they might not have otherwise taken
and they're probably only sitting on
there for 15 20 30 minutes just because
you gave that incentive rather
yeah
buy so i'd imagine the conversion rates
on those are super low and it's almost a
waste of time and money but if if
anyone's got data to prove me wrong get
in touch because i'd love to see it
that's a great point i i think um we had
an internal debate about this that hira
actually regarding events again so
uh what kind of things do we want to do
at the booth right and and uh also about
the marginal returns at these events
like how much you put in how big the
booth has to be in order to actually
gain value i would you know would
surprise some people but the size of the
booth doesn't necessarily mean you know
more qualified opportunities um
and so one of the things we talked about
was you know putting out like an
espresso uh an espresso machine
basically bringing in a barista to make
everyone coffee and i'm very again yeah
those things um because of what you just
said which is you know it's it's
basically like uh yeah come to my booth
to get coffee and i'll scan your badge
so that i have you as a need except
you're not a lead unless i wanted to
sell you coffee because you came to my
booth to get an espresso not because
you're interested in enterprise grade
conversational ai um and i think like uh
you know that's something that
when you go to these events you have a
ton of these circus tricks going on and
a
ton of these lavish
uh
stands set up and yeah you know and you
see these people scanning like crazy all
the badges and it's like okay well great
so now you have a very very convoluted
list of people who were at your booth
and you don't know if they were there
for yourself or just because they were
thirsty that day you know
that's a great point i haven't even
thought about this because we've never
really done physical events not
something i've ever got involved in
any tips i don't want to make this all
about events but it's quite interesting
because we've not had it on the show
before but any tips on what's working
for your team aaron in terms of actually
engaging people when they are at these
events and what their best practices are
absolutely um so first of all i just
want to say that if you
are a marketer now at a smaller startup
and you can't afford to do a booth at
these events so you can still have
presents even if you can't go to the
event we do what's called event
hijacking so
we basically
you know insinuate that we're a part of
the event or or like we're participating
in the event uh just by knowing about
the event and and
uh frequenting maybe some of the free
sessions
um but basically we'll go you know after
the speakers and say hey we saw that
you're speaking at this event and
sometimes you don't even need to be
going in order to get their attention
just your acknowledgment of the fact
that they're speaking just your
acknowledgment of the fact that the
event's happening creates a warmer
connection than if you're just doing
regular cold outbound right without
mentioning it because all of a sudden
you know if you actually talk about
the event with the speaker or an icp of
yours that's you know you saw as
attending the event that creates this
bond between the two of you it's a bond
of timeline of place of relevance uh so
that would be my
just like if you know you're thinking to
yourself wow events we don't have budget
well that's one way to to get over it is
look for all the events where your icps
are going and talk about that event you
don't have to mention whether or not
you'll be there physically talk about
this super nice little hat
yeah yeah i like that i think that's uh
that's something we did at the beginning
too especially
you know especially uh during covet when
all these events were virtual it was it
was super easy to to create you know
strike conversation around these things
that's interesting what about what do
your reps tend to do when they're
actually at the event so that's a nice
way if they're not going but is there
are they just doing the standard kind of
standing outside the booth and trying to
grab people's attention that are walking
past or they're doing anything a bit
different or anything that's lesser
known
yeah so um so i think in terms of our
events playbook our reps are relatively
good at booking a lot of meetings before
the event um that's that's mostly
you know if we
let's say we booked 70 meetings for a
healthcare conference with like 5 000
attendees right that's considered really
good and then i'll always account for
about you know 30 no-shows since it's a
big event and sometimes these people
drop off they've got sessions they're
keynote speakers they've just uh i don't
know inundated with meetings and
friendly faces so there's the no-show
portion but ultimately there's a number
we always attach a percentage of the
attendees
that are icps and then how many meetings
we expect to get and then one thing we
do at the event that's that's very
critical is that we're extremely now
adamant about getting a follow-up demo
booked
which really relates to hiro just that
we're able to create
demos without them doing anything on
their own data
so we'll promise that and we'll set that
meeting on the show floor so if they
come to our booth you know our gold
standard now isn't actually
like okay the volume of meetings we've
set right before the event it's during
the event how many of those meetings did
we actually qualify and set them as
opportunities for that second meeting
thereafter and that's the biggest you
know that's not our biggest success
okay that's a big deal guys
so to confirm kind of your your sdrs
your bdrs will get like a list of the
attendees match that with idle client
profile reach out to them before the
event kind of pre-booked some meetings
which majority 70 i think you said will
will will show and then from there
you'll look to have a conversation
qualify them and then book them for a
demo after the after the event yeah and
uh just one more tip i'll say about uh
no shows so to reduce the amount of
notional rates what we actually started
doing uh is we have people on the show
floor usually a bdr will take a selfie
of them smiling with our like little
signature swag item yeah of the booth
and then write you know it's a really
it's a cute uh
cute gesture they'll write an sms to the
person because we'll have their phone
numbers usually from being exhibitors
uh and then they'll actually send this
photo and that's how we we've actually
seen our no-show charade drop because
it's hard to ignore uh such a sweet uh
picture of someone smiling on the show
floor it's like
uh difficult to ignore so yeah i don't
know if they saw my face on a photo that
might scare them away
well that's why i'm not the one who
oh good fun there you go
cool like those tips all right let's
let's get back to it so
outbound sales reporting to marketing
what was some of the
disadvantages what were some of the hard
tough points what are some of the
negatives from your experience hands-on
from doing aaron
yeah so
again it really depends how the
organization is spread out um
and there's a lot of there's a lot of
factors that go into this but i'll just
say that one of the biggest cons
which we're going to start to see
potentially soon
when you have that talent pool of bdrs
or scr's
and they're growing in the company
so
a lot of them might want to stay in the
marketing department and do performance
marketing or product marketing or become
more on the analysis side or lead a team
of bdrs whatever it is that remains in
that you know in that department
but some of them might want to become
account executives and that's where i
think
that's really the biggest con i can i
can think of because right
there you might have an issue where if
the bdrs aren't in the same region
as account executives that's one an
issue so it might either be because
there's no opening phrase in your
current region or just because the
departments are completely separated
anyway
example i'm in tel aviv
so our bdrs are here in tel aviv even
though they're mostly americans and
canadians and then our our account
executives are in san francisco so
that's a tough
that's a tough uh play that's a 10 hour
difference
so time zone affects it and basically
what i'm trying to say is if bdrs want
to become account executives that's one
case where either
they're going to exit your department so
as an executive in the marketing team
you've invested all this time into
someone who's yeah great he's continuing
with the company but he's gonna leave
your department uh or two there won't be
room for them to grow into that account
executive role and then what do you do
so if the sales team says that's cool
that you have great bdrs and sdrs we
don't want them as account executives
now their growth might be stunted and
there's a ceiling there so that's one
issue where i think you know you'll have
to face kind of what to do about that
and again the other goes back to
discovery calls so if you're going to
want the bdr's sdrs to do discovery now
they're in the marketing department how
do you handle that because you're
essentially taking something that's
inherently sales based and and you know
putting that marketing hat on it uh so
that creates some friction there
okay
so correct yeah yeah appreciate you
you're sharing that with us
not many would so
i got another point potential negative
what about things like because i come
from a sales background um
i tend to run most of the cells so i'm
always interested to pick people's
brains on this kind of stuff but what
about sales training i mean for example
how are you guys handling it how do you
recommend so
typically i mean organizations that will
have several outbound sales reps account
execs closers etc they'll have either
external people come in or they'll have
a sales leader in-house and they'll do
all things from motivation to getting
reps on boarded to going through sales
processes to making sure they're hitting
targets to listening to sales calls
looking for ways to improve how do you
guys turn recommend that's handled
uh yeah it's a great question so our
training now the training of account
executives is led by the sales
department the training of the bdr's
sdrs is led by the marketing department
but because we're a smaller company or
just because we're really good at
alignment so everything's done
cross-departmentally all the
to be honest everyone who starts at hiro
is kind of trained cross-departmentally
so even though we own the bdr training
and the documents and the decks etc
you know they're still having their uh
training done at least one to two hours
with each of the aes that we have at
least one to two hours with the bp sales
and our co um
so it's really a cross-departmental
effort to get people ramped up including
the product team product team does some
of the onboarding for our pdrs as well
and our account executives um so i think
you know if the company's doing it right
there should be multiple hands involved
in the training exercises and
getting people ramped up um
yeah that's uh that's how we do it here
i don't i don't really have anything
specific to say about you know
the actual processes within the
sales department i'll say that but i
will say one thing we did which i think
i can offer as a tip to other marketers
or sales leaders
we brought in uh we did bdr boot camp
and we brought in guest speakers so we
had five different leaders in sales and
marketing come in and actually do
sessions with all of our business
development representatives about
different topics across the board and
how they do it at different companies
and it was fascinating for me also but i
think the bdr's got mentorship out of
that they got you know they built a
little community out of that and so
that's highly recommended if you can you
know tap into a network and get good
people to participate for an hour
yeah that's great
nice
okay and we've talked about quite a few
of the pros as we've been chatting so
far are there any other advantages that
we've not yet discussed to doing this
uh it's having ddrs under under
marketing um
yeah so
some people might be able to argue the
opposite but i think that
alignment has never been better
between the sales and marketing
department so
because bdrs are under marketing because
top of the funnel is completely under
marketing means that sourcing all of the
pipeline is under marketing and it means
that we have to be on exactly the same
page and i know that there's some
companies who say yeah why do you need
bdrs under marketing in order to have
you know great relationship with the
bdrs or to have you know good lines of
communication with sales you don't but
it's an added you know it's bumpers in
the bowling alley it's really an added
advantage to that and it means that you
know all this documentation we have
around qualification it's perfectly
followed our bdrs are compensated on
opportunities our aes are the ones who
have to qualify opportunities so they
have to be completely in sync in order
for us to know how to compensate our
bdrs and for in order for aes right to
be able to say okay i'm moving these to
qualification now
and so that alignment really has never
been healthier and definitely attribute
a lot of that to this move of bdrs under
under the marketing department um the
other pro i'm not sure how much time we
have up but the other pro i would say is
is again
like being brand ambassadors for hira so
uh making sure that messaging is
followed i think that occasionally
certain sales teams right might want to
take their own narratives might want to
mess around with you know the different
materials that product marketing has
created
and that's fine there's always some
freedom there but having bdrs under the
marketing department ensures that that
the brand isn't tainted you know i i
would be as a vp marketing i would be uh
hard pressed to allow our brand to hurt
in the pursuit of you know uh meetings
booked right and i think sometimes in a
sales department you might you know be
so focused on the target or hitting
hitting your numbers that potentially
you know you're not willing to let the
or sorry you're willing to let the brand
uh hurt a little more and it's not you
know as much of a concern so i think
just having more of a balance there is
is nice
yeah yeah interesting um
you mentioned something a little bit
there on qualification
so
at
your organization because you're doing
it so did you basically make a document
with what
constitutes a qualified appointment or
demo or opportunity
yes we did okay okay and
is that something that you found
so a year ago you switched from kind of
traditional
having uh outbound sales
sales leader now they report to
marketing
did you find that when you made that
transition
that the qualification process got a lot
better
in terms of because i mean it's it's a
classic thing right that
sales will kind of sit on a demo or sit
on an appointment sit on a meeting and
if it's terrible then if it's came
inbound then they're going to blame
marketing and say look well this lead
was poorly qualified it's your fault
because the adverts were wrong or the
marketing was wrong or the website was
wrong have you found that that's become
a lot better since you've made this
shift or and that are there any other
interesting takes that you've seen that
you weren't expecting
uh yeah it's a great a really great
point so
um
definitely
i wouldn't say it's just because we made
this shift that like our sql to op ratio
right the the amount of
uh qualified meetings that become
opportunities uh is higher than it's
it's ever been
there's a couple of reasons there also
because jairo became much more focused
on two specific industries and expanding
in these industries versus being more
agnostic and that was a strategic play
but also absolutely the documentation of
around qualification
has just created a very very clear you
know set of almost commandments of okay
this should pass on to an ae and this
shouldn't pass on to an ae what's
automatic disqualification versus you
know what's uh what's considered a gray
area unacceptable versus what's exactly
you know what we're looking for and then
we have you know very little instances
of an account executive saying uh this
meeting you know this account wasn't uh
what we wanted um also because they do
one-to-one meetings each week with the
bdr and they go over the target account
list they go over you know what it is
that our icps are actually looking for
and looking to hear and so all of that
alignment you know just having the bdr
still very close to the aes having these
these documents that um are are guiding
us all and helping us navigate the right
way um
you know yeah that's that's been a huge
boon i think just for how we work well
together and
mitigating those like sales and
marketing you know typical uh
to that typical friction that exists
between the two departments
just want to play devil's advocate for a
second um
sure and uh this this is a bit of a
controversial one but the only thing
that comes straight straight to my mind
when i think of documentation
especially as i sit on a lot of the
sales calls for for us web choice for
certain demos and appointments that we
run
um
when i think of
kind of a document or a script it almost
feels to me a little bit robotic how did
you ever have any pushback from your
sales rep saying i didn't want to ask
these points because it just didn't feel
right i've actually tweaked it to adapt
it to my own style or any any kind of
feedback you've got on that
yeah um absolutely i think
yeah so that you know in terms of taking
the deck and kind of uh again tweaking
there is some semblance of like okay
you're free to attack this account or
attack you know this uh um
or attack is not the right one you're
free to uh go after this account or you
know introduce this account to hiro in
this way
um and you know there's definitely some
semblance of of uh i think
uh malleability there um
but at the same time you know yeah we
have specific uh uh messaging that we
use for specific accounts and for
specific industries and um so it's meant
to be guidelines that are followed um
but yeah we we don't you know we're not
policing the sales team and saying uh
you didn't ask uh these discovery
questions so uh therefore you know this
is
uh this is a job poorly done or this is
not qualified or uh and i think overall
again there's just like a level of
alignment where we understand that uh
a lot of the crappy leads just aren't
even getting to that phase anyway uh so
a lot of the you know usually what would
be problematic leads that are then
kind of finding some kind of uh you know
hole in the fence into the pipeline
it's not happening so
um yeah it's not a huge issue at hyrule
but of course we still have that
you know we still have just like most
companies that thing where account
executives kind of
you know are freestyling a bit um
yeah yeah
it comes with the territory i guess
cool okay you handled that well so
moving forwards
let's let's get a few
let's wrap everything up nicely we're
going to talk quickly about commission
structures and what you're doing at the
end
but for a company that has tuned in so
far
be it a c-suite be a marketer be it
someone who thinks well this sounds
interesting i'd like to give this a try
our organization what are the top tips
that you found aaron so if someone's
starting from
scratch if someone's thinking i want to
transition now i want to kind of see how
it plays with making marketing um the
leaders in terms of who's who the
outbound sales team report to what are
the kind of the building blocks the
first few things that you need to put in
place to ensure it's a success
yeah well one of them right is the is
actually what you just spoke about so
understanding the commission structure
and uh and i think a good way to do that
is to look at a lot of the channels that
exist for marketers and this is again
why i think marketing might be best
suited to take on all top of the funnel
so if you look at channels that are
working for you in terms of generating
meetings and opportunities then that's
how you should look at okay here's how i
want to build out this uh this
commission structure and here's the
maximum i'm willing to pay for a meeting
created by outbound or an opportunity
created by outbound
and that's where you should that's how
you should judge also okay the sound
gonna scale this thing um so a lot of it
is around actually how you're gonna
create that commission structure and how
you're gonna envision paying out this
team
um you know and that's something i look
at on a on a weekly basis is basically
our cost per meeting and our cost per
opportunity from all the different
sources um
so that's that's where i would start is
thinking about okay how how do i really
want you know this uh this structure
uh to exist and
one of the best steps after that
depending again on size and where you
are is to get someone who's been a bdr
to lead that team and i can't stress
that enough
uh it could be that you know the way it
worked here is that i hired two bdrs and
then i brought on a team lead once i
felt comfortable with the what we've you
know what we had tested and with the the
commission structure and then it could
work and scale once i had a taste enough
of a taste of success that i brought on
a team lead but i can't stress enough
how amazing this hire was the name's
lior kraft he's our bdr team lead and
nobody poached him
but
uh he's a phenomenal
team lead now because he was a
phenomenal bdr before and they don't
always translate right but um but being
a good bdr and understanding the pains
of a bdr is is incredible for doing the
job well uh yes you have to know how
these people's mindset things when
they're going to hit points of fatigue
when you need to offer intrinsic
extrinsic motivation
um you know like uh
like internal competitions and things
like that and that's key to keeping the
team performing you know throughout 12
months because
of course there's there's fatigue
involved it's not easy and i have
tremendous respect for our uh bdrs for
bdrs everywhere that are doing likewise
it's worth it
one of the toughest gigs is out there in
terms of a daily rejection and
working through tough tough things to
get appointments over the line so
likewise huge amount of respect for
people in that aspect of sales and yeah
certainly agree there's nothing there's
nothing worse than having a sales team
leader that hasn't actually made the
dials or done the work themselves so
someone's shouting commands at you
that's never been in the trenches so i
i'm completely with you there just
jumping back to commission
um
commission structure do you recommend
that you incentivize teams based on
like a bonus per meeting set is that
what you recommend or anything you've
seen work well
um
again
this isn't a cop-out but really really
depends on the on the type of
company so
you know depends on the average customer
value depends on how often deals close
uh i know some companies that only
uh right give
bonuses based on revenue that bdrs have
brought
which to me isn't the right thing to do
for someone whose effect on that deal
ends after they've had that meeting
attended
which is the case of hyrule in case of a
lot of enterprise sas companies uh so
what we did was we made it like almost
gamification of the whole thing we don't
even refer to it as money we refer to it
as points and we have like a scoreboard
for points uh one the the target is uh
you know i'll tell you this uh face
face value so um we have one point for a
qualified meeting attended or an sql and
then an additional point if it moves to
be a sales qualified opportunity um so
realistically what it means is if a bdr
does a great job of booking a ton of
meetings in a month they can hit their
uh quota even if a lot of those don't
get qualified as opportunities for var
variety of reasons right like uh because
the person said nah we can't evaluate
this in a year but you have a great
product so they still did a great job
getting that meeting but the timeline's
not right um so i didn't want them to
only
right be
um
victim to like a number of meetings
because then if they have a bad month
and they don't book enough meetings they
don't hit target so what we did was make
it so that a bdr can also have an off
month in terms of the volume of meetings
but if all of them are qualified and
become opportunities they can hit target
you know very easily uh just because of
the quality of the meetings um yeah so
really we tried to balance it out
between volume and quality and i think
that that's worked up until this point
uh but there's there's you know there's
a ton of different ways that people
structure this i i know companies that
only do
uh
it's a fixed price like five hundred
dollars for instance per opportunity
right that's something that i know
there's a b2b sas company right down the
street from us that does that and that
works for them i i find it weird to
attach the monetary value and i think
making it points makes everyone a little
bit more competitive it's a weird uh
psychological thing that you see happen
on the team and it's been really uh it's
been fun to watch yeah most sales reps i
know love a competition so i i
appreciate you sharing that idea and i'm
sure a lot of people will be tempted to
steal or make their own variation of
that because it sounds pretty cool i'll
send over the pdf i'm happy to do it oh
awesome man yeah yeah do do that we'll
put a link in the episode notes of
businessgrowth.marketing
cool so we've got the commission we've
got the bdr's um led by a team leader
who's actually done it the job themself
um what what kind of the next few steps
uh yeah so having a good commission
structure um getting that bdr team lead
and then you know this is just just
really good onboarding um
you know it's something i alluded to
before when i talked about bringing in
experts in the field to talk to bdrs i
think it was
that's really if i can say that our
onboarding is better than others i'm not
so sure but i think if there's one thing
i've heard across the board from people
who have you know heard of what we're
doing here or the bdrs themselves
other people in the marketing department
that's what we've been uh you know uh
told
is really quite unique um is this idea
of bringing in guest speakers uh so just
making sure that the onboarding is super
robust
another thing we do for our bdrs is we
we make them graduate by presenting the
deck the product deck uh so actually
even though we know they're not going to
be doing discovery one thing i want to
see is that they have a fundamental
understanding of what we're selling
and what are our actual value
propositions what's our actual you know
uh what are the pain points right that
we're uh that we're addressing and the
best way to do that is to force them to
present it in front of a group of their
peers so
when available i use a panel of account
executives and then they ask objective
objections with the product deck and
then we make it a thing you know we make
it a graduation ceremony it's pretty
it's pretty cute uh it works um
and uh you know it makes it's a
feel-good moment it's like they've you
know that so the training's done and
they had to present this and they were
nervous maybe but they got through it
and now hopefully it's retained and it's
information that they can rely on but
now they're going to go off and build
their first cadences and start to
actually do outreach
yeah and there's a lot of other part of
the training that i could talk about i'm
sure a lot of this is standard we have
cold call role playing you know we do
uh we did one at one point trial by fire
so don't think about it just send your
first messages and like uh you know you
see everybody kind of get so nervous and
then some of them even book a meeting on
their first try of like
it's pretty insane we had we had one bdr
who within the first three messages they
ever sent without even understanding
what they're really doing um which i
don't i don't recommend this as a
strategy for outbound but
they were able to book a meeting and
it's just a feel-good moment right like
you're expected to to not hit
at all you're just in training
and then you book meetings it's a good
uh confidence booster and that's
something that we made sure was part of
onboarding as well so i have a lot of
tips and tricks about the onboarding
itself and
that's really where your bdrs are going
to draw a lot of their strength from
right so yeah super important
nice no i appreciate the breakdown aaron
that's that's really useful in terms of
kind of what what you've seen work
and how you've made sure it's a success
at your organization i think having the
having the team go through some
understanding of the actual product or
the offering that you provide is useful
because i'm sure every now and then if
you're prospecting people are going to
ask you things they might traditionally
ask an ae like
oh how does this work or i want to know
this before i speak to a sales rep
before i sit on a demo so if you've got
that little taster of knowledge you can
kind of perhaps give them a little
tidbit something to keep them hooked
before you take them to the next step
yeah a thousand percent sam you're right
and i think
to be honest it's on our to-do list to
make a better objection handling cheat
sheet uh for bdrs just because of the
volume of questions people ask at least
around hiro it's uh like we're a
conversational ai we're doing a lot of
different products and a lot of
different channels so there's always
questions about random integrations and
uh that's something i recommend as well
is giving them that cheat sheet is uh as
early as possible earlier than we did
this is a tough one and this is putting
you on the spot a bit but what would you
say is the is the number one thing
number one positive result that you've
had since you've switched to having your
outbound sales team report to marketing
complete overhaul of the culture and dna
of the outbound team um
i think uh you know beforehand and this
is maybe strictly to hiro but uh we just
saw a real real shift like we rebuilt
that team
kind of from scratch and
uh there was a lot that we were able to
focus on that i think previously the
team didn't understand didn't work well
and uh and starting from the ground up
like we just made sure that that team
has
you know such a competitive drive and
such a strong culture
yeah and you know
the team chemistry's phenomenal and the
way that they gel together is phenomenal
and
uh ultimately you know that's
the bdr team if anything is the closest
in the company to like a sports team
that's the truth like they behave like a
sports team i don't
and i think we were missing that that
dna uh beforehand and that's something
we've seen um but high level the the
switching from sales to marketing i
think again the best thing
um
that you can expect to see as a
different organization outside of phiro
if you make that switch
is that you know you'll you'll have
people who are invested in the messaging
and the brand um and also just the
alignment between sales and marketing
will be that much stronger because you
now have shared responsibility over
pipeline so i think that's the best
advice uh you know that's the best thing
to look forward to if you make that
change
nice way to wrap it up i like the uh
sports people analogy because they say a
lot of people that go from kind of
competitive sports that go into sales do
really well just because they've got
that competitive edge competitive streak
one of our best uh bdrs is a ski
instructor and used to do competitive
skiing so there you go right you know
that makes sense there's definitely a
correlation somewhere somehow yeah i
think so too aaron look really
appreciate you coming on the show mate
this has been very very interesting and
it's really been some actionable stuff
on how people can actually put this
system in play for their outbound sales
team and appreciate you being so
transparent because a lot of marketers
wouldn't have shared
the ins and outs and wouldn't have
result resulted so well in the grilling
that i've given you today so really
appreciate you being very transparent
mate i hope yeah thank you so much sam i
hope it was insightful for people and i
encourage everyone to be this
transparent i mean uh you know we're all
we're all in together so to speak so
definitely definitely with that said sir
please do tell us more about how when
tuning in can connect with you learn
more from you or any way you want to
send our audience
yeah sure um if anyone wants to get in
touch uh i think sam maybe you'll share
my linkedin profile but uh but yeah you
can look up aaron boards on linkedin and
please uh connect with me reach out i'm
happy to always talk marketing or biz
dev
and if anyone wants to learn more about
jairo and what we're doing in
conversational ai uh it's hiro.ai so
yeah check out our website
topman i'll put all of those links in
the show notes of
businessgrowth.marketing and with that
thank you once again for coming on sir
sure thank you so much tim
cool man and as always if you enjoyed if
you enjoyed today's episode why not
leave us a quick rating if you're on the
audio show or if you're tuning on
youtube a quick subscribe and we'll
catch you on the next episode for more
actionable no bs marketing tips to grow
your business and grow revenue cheers
for tuning in